---
layout: post
author: me
---

GROUCHO AND HARPO AND CHICO AND ZEPPO

What's warranted now is an opening the size of a large boot, or large enough to take 	in 		a large boot,	steel toed, with minimal	stretching needed. What's warranted – a chorus plays out 		in pageantry & kitsch just this: litany and listicle both – what's warranted now is a way in.	Namely like what happened to that Paul McCarthy butt plug blow up sculpture – incisive, destructive, dense (in that			kind of ham fisted 	way “puncturing the penetrator / penetrating // it”
is; the		asserting of your 		own phallus over 	phallocentrism,	a kind of 				foreclosure on idealistic	 revolt type beat). What's warranted: something		much better than what's been removed; 	removed		are the 		teenage dregs I've become better than, somewhat. That may not be true.
What is true, and I could confirm, is		before here there sat something,
		 on these pages, so brittle	if it had seen the light of day
& judgement		& oxidation, steady	 in all its effects,
it would have 			not survived.		So! with reticence	I meditate
	on stupid failures, stupider lacunae...

[Title card emblazoned on all four corners with impish caricatures of lesser brothers Harpo, Chico, Zeppo – our friends – and diagonal to Zeppo: blank corner, black circle.

[We fade in: there they are – made flesh, again. Alone. Street corner. In turbulence, lacking. Chico gone hoarse as Harpo, the guinea grate spent as his purse on the eighteenth hour of a bad night in a basement, and Zeppo, so same as ever: know him by what he's not. (Behold, the last man, nigh, makes an anodyne face and bleats his nothing message: “nothing, nothing, nothing changes me,”(in that mundane lilt, with a starlet at arm's length to whom he gives a twirl).]

Groucho is sniggering
the way he sniggers. Pointing, on open,
to and away from and giving giving and
sniggering the way he sniggers. He
has Harpo's hat 	at
his waist		and
fills it with piss
holding his cock at the brim
and letting a steady stream
soak through like
he does every Friday...

[Street corner: Say a prayer for vanity. For piety and pretension. Say a prayer against the wall. An outgunned prayer. Sing in praise of “goodness” against the wall and outrun the avenging angel aimed at your chest. There've been many a ragtag bunch bought the farm against a great adversary, and here's our ragtag bunch: afraid, shaking, in the rain. Melancholy and consternation could only ever coexist. They're damned and drenched if they're a day. They aren't young anymore and wish they could just go home.]

Groucho gesticulating on the streets now and
dancing to his oldest banjo's hum the way he
used to dance through childhood:
Harpo, brash, hit him in the head,
hit him very hard in the head – he
would put a bat
repeatedly against his temple
and stomp him into dirt
and spit 		him out and
burn him with his torch (that
is vaudeville, after all
and boys will be boys, after all and
pain is the punchline,
actually.) Groucho was
the middle brother and hated that harp sound
and guts before he knew what
funny was but
how pretty the banjo skin was
to him then.

A break to acknowledge that		when density and stupidity dovetail
that dove lifts its tail and, 		from the top of a cold, three-
story building stacked one stone at a time by 	rough men with thick fingers who 	spoke no English 90 years ago
in an erstwhile Ukrainian hamlet on the West-Side of Chicago	overstuffed of late with	non-ethnic white tech money,
shits on my head as I walk in the frigid cold. 	A cold which carries through the 	thickest, most insulated aporias:	that there's no peace between
these representations and reality, and exactly the same
between reality and the movies 			(and the TV shows, with their easy mediocrity, were already the end of “Groucho” and the beginning of “Julius.”)
A cold so ever present it unites nothing,
inside all those discrete little parts doing nothing 		past explaining in its inadequate way how they all 		wound up together...

[Again: Harpo and Chico and Zeppo 	screaming	prayer not ended.
All this time	speaking tongues	they've been saying it
this whole time and	always		saying it.
Teeth more bloodied	than before
saying it	and skin
more like	pipe smoke
but saying it.]

Groucho still has the piss hat. It's been sloshing
around. He tosses it
toward a fat and old     white Chevrolet,
the kind fat and white		old women drive.
These white, old, fat
women they wear sun hats when they drive –
a soaked and lilac-scented head turned
ammonia with the piss and
Groucho he just can't stop laughing. He
laughs and laughs his tongue
with its geographic ridges around
his face, his stained teeth like a stale cigar;
his eyes burst, and Groucho laughs.
This is an ordinary day: the way cars crash
and swerve into us because instability has come
the way birds birth blood and feces
in eggs when they are sick. The woman
does not survive the crash
and ammonia lingers on her sick and used
up skin and Groucho won't stop walking. His greasepaint
in razor lines, resting – black
obsidian prop he loves. Groucho
stays steady as red coals
dance – shimmy, ya – inside.
His ears and his nostrils flair,
the cars speed and speed,
wet sky wets.

[Gutter: prayer complete. Our vacuous man has been captured by scare-quotes: “Zeppo” wrestled all his time with being nothing. Copy of a copy “man,” set to no music, and not in a fun way. Now that lack, lack, lack, has found its way back and they just aren't equipped to handle it. Harpo and Chico fight it off, that truth qua identity crisis, and watch it hover, Nix, over their own diminutive little Pluto.]

Groucho skips Groucho skips Groucho
skips along – a child in the future,
promenading home from school, she
throws rocks at cats she passes and
lights every worm on fire – ones she finds,
inside gutters, wrapped around	grates and wet,
they bubble before they burn. Groucho
is a harbinger of so much comedy. He
takes fire from pocket, puts it
to cigar he chews and puffs, wants
to scream, puffs
it, thinks
about the hole he'd burn in
the Sun, the size of Earth and all the new
darkness there would be. Inactive, he
smashes two beetles on his heel and it
fails to dissipate his rage,
Harpo and Chico on his mind
whose sameness, whose consent
he will shout and laugh at,
mash, pound into
the crumbling asphalt some
old movie set has got.
His dreams – the day he'll pick the hard remains
of them up and dance: Harpo in the one hand, and	Chico other,
to start the true Freedonia on their guts, with
dentist Gummo king decreeing nothing
and Groucho, with his days,
rooting out all twins,
his jeweled and booted feet
descending
this, his beautiful world.

[Montage: sharp close-ups indicating intensity, showing our trios tools:
serrated edges all aroused and ready for seepage, for life to lick
sticks: blunt, wooden, dense, with a hardness smacking deafness into ears and bruising skin and numbing flesh
hammers for only teeth
crowbars and bats for bodies, for knees, for ligaments to bend backwards, to tear the sinew one trusts in to walk
torches for hell fire to come, torches all in Harpo's hands, for spitting flames into sinners eyes for melting them, melting them, melting them.

[All these tools in deep pockets, and deep runs their need to order (to sort to punish to make right to protect “life” against life imitation.)

[And, amidst the digression, from around the corner: gnashing Groucho – unawares, incensed at something – arrives.]

Continuous: the flesh, the skin, in
the body on the corner, where
regress is first felt and Groucho
tilted glasses now is smiling
at his brothers;	this, his love –
his loves, their broken bodies, they
can't know – can't – how he sees	how
they	are,
disparate specks bound
by some such nonsense mixed, boiled,
etc. across a
life, but importantly he remembers
the bits he'd grown up with, in
an instant sees – remembers – parts,
the clumps still there, the hair and
follicles, the
glands, the errant eye veins – like
he always sees behind
the words the fallacies they'd
set on top of fallacies to build
their brick-houses for themselves, their
scum-things to hold to – when he sees them,
and asks how?
How the parts and
bodies that he knew,	could be
so abused, so
imposed upon? When, so simple, his
perfect world would
be no more facts to bind them wrong, would

be bodies liberated now, but

That moment when a drug takes you, 	or when first you realize that a drug 		has already taken you, 	unlike before, after you first felt it – that thing you'd done – and had that 		pleasant feeling – being high – unlike that, 		this moment, looking around, when you recognize that you 	are submerged in it, or 	that it snuck up on, and around, and seeped through, and climbed over, and stuck to	you, such that now you are	oversaturated with, only able to see, feel, hear through it,	that all too obviously it coated the you in you	and that, for the moment, you	have no access to the world but the world filtered through, the world qua drug effects, 	makes you feel altogether under something that's tertiary to you 	and uncomfortable with it –  a stasis that demands too much attention.
To be clear:	that cold that came before 	is this, more or less, and both 	are present in accepting: hcz going to meet Groucho, 	Groucho walking (or going along, skipping, etc) and the elaboration 	therein of what they are is itself 	a stasis present in and on everything, that when they meet 	on a corner like they have met and do what 	it is I was planning, 	it has to be forced, that for them to progress through preordained stations nothing can happen “naturally” and it will never feel natural, 	and always lingering is what's lost in ending things, 	what's left inadequately said, 	which is everything, so that not only do minor little hcz misunderstand Groucho's purity, I misunderstand it and Groucho too, who's even 	less than he let on, 	and any determination, finally, falls to inarticulate mutterings that are naught and convey naught and not in a literary way, and find their full breadth only in inadequacy, flat and dead.
Nothing escapes a steady reckoning; what's written is inadequate and full of holes. Four caricatures meet and...? All was never anything at all.
	Messy metaphors and rambling at an idea on second thought both impossible and wrong, push, about some slovenly nothing non-event, phantasmagoric little weapons from the small ones all, yes, force, gouged into their better, yes, and something akin to finishing forces out...

yes the razor wire tucked up in
Chico's sock and yes the saw is
slapstick and cartoonish
jagged edges abound, both sides
the saw, the knife, the teeth filed down
in Groucho's mouth, or just jagged,
and the hands they've got are telling
here: limp-wristed Zeppo may
well have died already, who 		knows? and
ham-fisted Chico digs
his nails into his palms, and
Harpo, hands in pockets, waiting,
hums a miasmatic little tune
under the red plains sprouting
out the skin over his skull
but, as always, falls silent elsewhere.

If any form of pleasure is exhibited
Report to me and it will be prohibited
Groucho sings, remembering
that beautiful baby cry. 1901 –
Groucho, 11, hearing the sounds of it,
torn and nail-sharp at
its inordinate edges, shape
he never could pin down, but
here it was – those edges,
orthogonal to irony was the feeling then
as now,
and here it was again.

Whose eye-	socket 		is it
Groucho's stubby fingers push past sliding
the balls deep, 	deep?
Poor blind man, poor Zeppo, your brother always
hated you the most when he
was thinking and, poor you, you caught
him thinking. Oh, baby Zeppo,
he hated	all your fear,
you dim monster, but
baby you've got all the time to rest now. His
fingers scratch your brain and dense
black-red liquid pours into your agonized
mouth. Rest now.

Harpo watches 	as	Zeppo withers, and
Groucho looks	at the dense red on his
two fingers. Harpo just watches.

Chico seeing cowardice cries –
his leader has abandoned him – him, the
soon no longer faux-Italian man
who stutters and stututters mockeries,
feigned funny him, the fucker – Groucho sees
the shell, the shell their mother built –
not comedy in truth. No, no fun. Accents are
no comedy nor fun. It's
rejection of the body
from the 	un-
funny mouth he hates. He
jams his fist again and again in
that mouth – honesty honesty honesty
leaves the face a hole, and saves the something
underneath.

Groucho spins Groucho spins – there's
joy in being hero here, and fun.	But,
his lips uncurl and he
swallows his cigar:	a brother left still breathing.

Oh, Harpo. Harpo, you truly knew funny some
-how, Harpo, so, where did
that go and why? The torch, the tie, you
burnt so many curtains with him, trapped
so many mice as children. He spoke, you acted.
He thought you were purer, loved you most.
The only order in you then was music,
and it was beautiful, that harp. First
irony was stringing	his neck up in it. You
taught him cruelty, taught him comedy and truth, no?
The silent	purity of your violence was
his 	only	true	funny.
Childhood was hell with you, you
made Groucho every day, shaped him
into an entropy you never knew. It
is beautiful to him even now,		remembering.
Oh, why did you change, Harpo, and how?

Then a snigger from Groucho.   So,
so many hanging questions, and
he can't help but laugh
a phlegm-filled laugh, can't help
but throw his head back and cackle.
It's so funny, so so funny, how
many answers he needs from a mute.
